stock markets are constantly moving
erratically it has become a chore to be
able to Monitor and understand the
movement and the ripple effect while
there are thousands of important
indicators some offer more information
and usefulness than others this one
chart can be compared against so many
others and tell us a grand picture of
what is really going on and where we can
expect expect it to go you came here for
the truth so let me unveil that for you
today let's get into this one indicator
I believe it is absolutely crucial I'm
going to show you comparisons to other
indicators let's begin well what is it
we are looking at the Willshire 5,000
total market index a very important
indicator and you can see over the past
few years that it has gone sky High
let's get into the breakdown of exactly
what this is the Willshire 5000 total
market index it's widely accepted as the
definitive Benchmark for the US Equity
market and measures performance of all
us Equity Securities with readily
available price data so we're looking at
basically a total an overall view you
know when you look at the NASDAQ you get
a particular picture or you look at the
Dow Jones you look at the S&P but what
about everything Al together that gives
you a much wider Spectrum sometimes it's
important to look in depth at one
particular stock market or one
particular sector or even further
drilling down into the stocks themselves
but sometimes it's more important to get
that wide view and that's what the
Willshire 5000 does
looking at the Willshire 5000 versus
employee year over-year change in
earnings and it is very clear that a few
decades ago it was a lot different than
today and you will see that this trading
range where it's in essentially is
something that has been continuing and
it seems to be approximately you know in
the at least in the last few years since
the financial crisis always below this
3% Mark previously back in the 70s you
can definitely see that earnings were
doing quite well ever since that
introduction of low interest rates that
you can clearly see by this line going
down pretend that's the FED funds
rate it has shown us that that has taken
away from these uh earnings that
individuals have gotten now of course
there are many more reasons for that but
that seems to be the way it is anyway
compared to the Willshire
5,000 corporate profits versus corporate
tax revenue this is interconnected in
with that and you'll see that despite
the fact that corporate profits just
continue to increase and increase and
increase exponentially mind you you
could see that
here the corporate tax
revenue is down yes it is going up but
to so much of a lesser degree than the
corporate profits and it just seems that
they're able to keep their profits
overseas and they're able to use
loopholes they generally have a lower
tax bracket and this has allowed them to
increase their corporate profits then we
look at this the Willshire 5000 versus
the 10year treasury is this is they ask
the greatest bubble
ever all right look at this though
you're looking at a
consistent decline that is the
10year treasury and when you compare it
to the Willshire 5000 you're seeing
basically the exact opposite Trend and
that's important to note we need to see
the trends and when they break trends
that is exactly what we need to to be
worried so at this time here you will
see that death cross you will see this
sort of um Schism which is formed in
between the two and that is important to
knowe they also make a a few points here
basically considering it's a bubble at
this point in the do com boom they're
saying it's a bubble back in the 2008
and look at it today apparently it's not
a bubble and of course we are definitely
far beyond beond the word
bubble Way Way Beyond all right one last
one here just to show you the new
America Zer zero interest rate policy
enables federal debt enabling jobs
growth so they
say and what this has allowed for you
look at the FED funds rate since the
financial crisis it's at the bottom okay
it's basically at
zero simultaneously this has caused a
massive amount in federal debt as well
as Jobs grow supposedly but really is it
and what we will see is that you know
the jobs come as you've seen temporary
workers and they often times are working
for the government in some sort of way
they're not necessarily good jobs at all
but they're able to hire temporary
workers and they are doing so at a
higher rate more than ever this is just
one chart which depicts that so I will
say that you can take the Willshire 5000
you go to a search engine type in
Willshire 5000 and you will get all
different charts that will compare them
to all these other different indicators
and I do believe it is important in fact
you can do this with any type of uh one
of these charts you can say S&P 500
versus and you will get other charts as
well so always don't take it at face
value but compare it against something
else you know when we look at a
commodity whether that is gold or oil or
anything else we see a number we see
let's just say $1,000 per ounce of gold
but that is rated against the US dollar
but what happens when you rate that same
gold in a different currency perhaps
right now at this time you're into
Venezuela how they priced their gold
well all of a sudden gold looks like
it's going up and up and up because the
devaluation of their currency so always
measure against something else as well
as taking it at its face value both of
those are important if you found this
video informative please give me a
thumbs up this is all part of the money
GPS EC course which is a free ecourse
that I've been doing and collecting more
and more videos on this to educate the
public to inform people about the basics
and then the more intermediate levels of
Finance I hope you do appreciate that if
you want more information head over to
my website the money gps.com I have the
whole free ecourse there you can also
see it on my YouTube channel as well if
you want to see the uh ecourse you can
just go to the money gps.com and
there'll be a little image there that
will say uh free ecourse you can see
that there's hours and hours of uh free
content on there and of course if you
found the video informative I know you
will find my book The Money GPS even
more informative so just head over to
Amazon where they have a look inside
feature that will allow you to flip
through the pages of the book and see if
you like it take care